This is great. Quick question about mailing lists: Spark also has a spark-users google group. Can we also get a users@spark.i.a.o mailing list to have somewhere to migrate that group? Do I need to create an infra issue for this? Also, we should discuss a strategy, and timeline for migrating the mailing lists over to the new ones. As far as a strategy, here are the steps I can think of that will help make for a smooth transition: 1. Request users list on apache infra (done) 2. Pick a day/time for the switch (how about July 1, assuming users@spark.i.a.o is set up by then) 3. At Switch time: 1. Make announcements on the dev and users mailing lists with links to the new lists, instructions on how to subscribe, and a note saying all conversations are moving over to that list. 2. Update the website with links to the new lists 3. Enable an auto responders on those lists with pointers to the new apache lists Anything else? Andy On Fri, Jun 21, 2013 at 5:03 PM, Mattmann, Chris A (398J)  wrote: Re a commits email list, Henry said that a commits list was created and I was able to subscribe to it so it seems like it exists. However, it isn't showing up at http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/ but maybe that's because no email has been sent to it yet (thus no archives). And when i tried sending an email to it, I got a bounce (see below) but it looks like it bounced because it only accepts emails from @apache.org email addresses (and I sent from my gmail address). Andy + spark-developers@googlegroups.com to loop in those who haven't subscribed to dev@spark.i.a.o yet, (also because my emails are getting bounced by Apache's spam filters). I wanted to respond here in the conversation about the mailing list migration that was happening on the email thread called "Re: A wiki for Spark (on Apache infra)"... Assuming that we Apache requires us to migrate from google groups to lists on Apache infra, we might consider waiting to migrating the users list to apache infra until after we graduate to a TLP, so that we only have to migrate it once. Here's why. I assume with each list migration that requires subscribers to do work, we will lose some subscribers. If we ask them to migrate to an incubator user list now and then again to yet a different list when we graduate to a TLP (which we hope to do fairly quickly), it seems like we will irritate and lose strictly more subscribers. This requirement to migrate infra twice as part of moving to Apache seems a bit hard on communities. It also seems like a requirement that will go away if the changes you are pushing for to the incubation process (i.e. podling TLPs) actually ever happen. Anyway, I see our options as: 1. Migrate only the dev list now (since this is a smaller core group that is more likely to migrate with us) and wait to create an apache users list until we graduate and migrate from the users google group then. Con: it's confusing to have user and dev lists on different infra. 2. Move the users list now, in which case we go with the migration plan I proposed earlier. Con: migrating users list twice = more irritating to users. Andy On Fri, Jun 28, 2013 at 12:20 PM, Mattmann, Chris A (398J)  wrote: On Fri, Jun 28, 2013 at 4:40 PM, Mattmann, Chris A (398J)  wrote: spark-users: 868 members spark-developers: 224 members I've created this INFRA issue requesting a Spark Confluence wiki https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-6475 and made it a sub-task of the umbrella INFRA issue tracking all of the podling bootstrapping tasks (i.e., https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-6417 ). Andy On Thu, Jun 27, 2013 at 5:55 PM, Andy Konwinski  Ok I'm going to request a confluence wiki then. Hey Cos, We will still be using git for code but we will need to use svn for the website files once we migrate [a copy of] it from spark-project.org to Apache's servers. Andy On Jul 10, 2013 11:09 PM, "Konstantin Boudnik"  wrote: Hey everyone, Join us for the third AMP Camp Big Data Bootcamp, which we will be hosting at UC Berkeley August 29-30, 2013. Come to AMP Camp 3 to get hands-on experience with data analytics and machine learning using Spark, Shark, GraphX, and more. We have expanded the curriculum from AMP Camps 1 and 2 to include the newest open-source BDAS projects and we have extended the hands-on exercises to span both days. Find details and register at ampcamp.berkeley.edu/amp-camp-three-berkeley-2013. We expect to sell out quickly, so grab a spot soon, though the event will also be live streamed and video archived for free, in case you can't make it. When you register, use the discount code *canhazmoarspark* and get an extra $10 off your registration... a little extra love for hanging out on the Spark dev list. Finally, spread the word and make sure that all of your friends that you've been recommending try out Spark register to come as well. Andy & the AMP Camp team www.facebook.com/UCBAMPLab amplab.cs.berkeley.edu @amplab Also, if we do it for the users group/list, is there any reason not to do it for the developers group/list as well? I think most of the developers also prefer to use Google groups and it would be nice to have the setup of the two mailing lists be parallel to each other. Andy On Tue, Aug 20, 2013 at 12:52 PM, Mark Hamstra  Is Google groups email formatting completely compatible with Apache lists? Hey Jey, I'd just like to add that you can also run hadoop2 without modifying the pom.xml file by passing the hadoop.version property at the command line like this: mvn -Dhadoop.version=2.0.0-mr1-cdh4.1.2 clean verify Also, when you mentioned building with Maven in your instructions I think you forgot to finish writing out your example for activating the yarn profile, which I think would be something like: mvn -Phadoop2-yarn clean verify ...right? BTW, I've set up the AMPLab Jenkins Spark Maven Hadoop2 project to build using the new options https://amplab.cs.berkeley.edu/jenkins/job/Spark-Master-Maven-Hadoop2/ Andy On Tue, Aug 20, 2013 at 8:39 PM, Jey Kottalam  wrote: Looks great to me Matei. Thanks for writing it up. Andy On Wed, Sep 4, 2013 at 9:52 AM, Matei Zaharia  Hi guys, Henry, This was really helpful. Thanks for forwarding. It sounds like it will give us a leg up if community members take time to go through the checklist Marvin included towards the end of his email (that you forwarded) and verify all of the components of the release. Andy On Mon, Sep 9, 2013 at 9:52 AM, Henry Saputra  Marvin put a good checklist to help getting VOTES from IPMC in Patrick, I took a quick look over your release_auditor.py script and it's really great! Then I ran it (had to add "--keyserver pgp.mit.edu" to the gpg command) and everything passed on OS X! Great job and +1 from me whenever you resolve the kafka jar issue you mentioned. Andy On Mon, Sep 16, 2013 at 8:37 PM, Matei Zaharia  FWIW, I tested it otherwise and it seems good modulo this issue. +1 (see my comments on RC5) On Tue, Sep 17, 2013 at 2:03 AM, Patrick Wendell  wrote: Thanks Roman and Chris, I see here http://www.apache.org/dev/release.html#mirroring that "Project download pages must link to the mirrors" but I don't see anything about ordering. I'm definitely +1 for including a link to the apache mirrors as required and providing the Cloudfront link first since this seems to satisfy the apache requirements and provide a better experience for users. Patrick. Thanks again for all your hard work on this release and for pushing back on parts of the Apache process as you go. That's how do-ocracies stay healthy and evolve. On Sep 26, 2013 7:23 PM, "Mattmann, Chris A (398J)"  wrote: We are excited to announce the *first Spark Summiton Dec 2, 2013 in Downtown San Francisco *. Come hear from leading production users of Spark, Shark, Spark Streaming and related projects. Also find out where development is going and learn how to use the Spark stack in a variety of applications. The summit is being organized and sponsored by leading organizations in the Spark community. You can also sign up to attend a half-day *Spark Training on December 3*, the day after the summit. Visit *www.spark-summit.org* to find more details, register to attend, or submit a talk of your own to give at the summit. See you at the summit! Andy & the summit planning team Hi, We are planning the first Spark Summit (Spark is an incubator project) for Dec 2-3 2013. Can you add it to the event calendar (http://community.apache.org/calendars/conferences.html) please? Thanks! Andy Konwinski When i go to https://spark.incubator.apache.org/, I get a certificate error. Is there something we need to do with the website content perhaps, or maybe is this know issue? Andy Created an INFRA ticket: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/INFRA-6938 On Sat, Oct 26, 2013 at 11:47 AM, Roman Shaposhnik  wrote: Hey folks, one more thing, As Matei mentioned, early bird rates are still available. However, we want to let everybody know that these rates will only last through next Fri, Nov 15. So register soon to save on your ticket price. See you at the Summit, Andy On Nov 7, 2013 2:30 PM, "Matei Zaharia"  wrote: Hi Spark user@ and dev@ list members, We are happy to announce that videos and slides of all talks from the first Spark Summit last week, Dec 2-3 in Downtown SF, are now available on the Spark Summit 2013 webpage at http://spark-summit.org/summit-2013. There is a link for each talk's slides and video next to the talk's title in the summit agenda. There are also links to the YouTube playlists for each Summit session (Keynotes, Track A, Track B, and Training Day ). You can also now pre-register for Summit 2014to get notified when tickets go on sale. Finally please let us know if you have feedback from the Summit. Enjoy the videos! Andy Hey Mike, As you probably noticed when you CC'd spark-developers@googlegroups.com, that list has already be reconfigured so that it no longer allows posting (and bounces emails sent to it). We will be doing the same thing to the spark-users@googlegroups.com list too (we'll announce a date for that soon). That may sound very frustrating, and you are *not* alone feeling that way. We've had a long conversation with our mentors about this, and I've felt very similar to you, so I'd like to give you background. As I'm coming to see it, part of becoming an Apache project is moving the community *fully* over to Apache infrastructure, and more generally the Apache way of organizing the community. This applies in both the nuts-and-bolts sense of being on apache infra, but possibly more importantly, it is also a guiding principle and way of thinking. In various ways, moving to apache Infra can be a painful process, and IMO the loss of all the great mailing list functionality that comes with using Google Groups is perhaps the most painful step. But basically, the de facto mailing lists need to be the Apache ones, and not Google Groups. The underlying reason is that Apache needs to take full accountability for recording and publishing the mailing lists, it has to be able to institutionally guarantee this. This is because discussion on mailing lists is one of the core things that defines an Apache community. So at a minimum this means Apache owning the master copy of the bits. All that said, we are discussing the possibility of having a google group that subscribes to each list that would provide an easier to use and prettier archive for each list (so far we haven't gotten that to work). I hope this was helpful. It has taken me a few years now, and a lot of conversations with experienced (and patient!) Apache mentors, to internalize some of the nuance about "the Apache way". That's why I wanted to share. Andy On Thu, Dec 19, 2013 at 6:28 PM, Mike Potts  wrote: I've set up two new unofficial google groups to mirror the Apache Spark user and dev lists: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/apache-spark-dev-mirror https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/apache-spark-user-mirror Basically these lists each subscribe to the corresponding Apache list. They do not allow folks to subscribe directly to them. Getting emails from the Google Group would offer no advantages that I can think of and we really want to encourage folks to sign up for the official mailing list instead. The lists do allow the public to send email to them, which I think might be necessary since the "from:" field for all emails that get distributed via the Apache mailing list is set to the author of the email. I think this might be a great compromise. At least we can try this out and see how it goes. Matei, can you confirm that Jan 1 is the date we want to turn off the existing spark-users google group? We could consider using the existing spark-developers and spark-users google groups instead of the two new ones I just created but I think that it is much more obvious to have the lists include the word mirror in their names. The dev list mirror seems to be working, because I see the last couple emails from this thread in it already. I'll confirm and ensure that the user list mirror is working too. Thoughts? Andy P.S. Thanks to Patrick for suggesting this to me originally. On Thu, Dec 19, 2013 at 8:46 PM, Aaron Davidson  wrote: That would be really awesome. I'm not familiar with any Google Groups functionality that supports that but I'll look. That's an argument for maybe just changing the names of the existing groups to something with mirror in them instead of using newly created ones. On Dec 20, 2013 8:18 AM, "Mike Potts"  wrote: Unfortunately, I don't see that as an option for either these nabble lists or the google groups. For the google groups, we we could subscribe the old spark google groups to the apache lists (instead of using the new mirror groups I created). However the tradeoff is that as far as I can tell, we wouldn't be able to have posting disabled or even subscriber only for those groups (since the emails from the apache lists would then get bounced). In this case, I'm concerned that if it remains possible to post to the google groups, then people will continue posting to them, which would be confusing to everybody. We could rename the old groups to make it clear they are the mirrors, however then the people who are subscribed to them and have rules setup for dealing with them would have to change their rules. Finally, we could unsubscribe everybody from the old google groups and then rename them to have the word mirror in them which would preserve history and be no worse than if they just became silent and activity moved to the new mirror groups i created (which as I mentioned, must allow posting by anybody). So I guess this last option is what I propose we do. Andy On Sun, Dec 22, 2013 at 3:51 PM, Mike Potts  wrote: It would be a good thing, I'm just not sure how to achieve it, or if it's possible. AFAIK, you cannot simply subscribe the lists to each other. Have you heard of a setup like this being used before? On Dec 22, 2013 7:12 PM, "Mike Potts"  wrote: +1 Successfully built on mavericks. Great stuff. On Jan 17, 2014 1:40 PM, "Michael Armbrust"  wrote: I think we might need to change the subject to [RESULT][VOTE] or something so that the apache scripts can tell when a vote thread ends, even if it's simply being replaced by another vote thread for rc{n+1}. On Tue, Jan 21, 2014 at 3:15 AM, Patrick Wendell  wrote: +1 On Sat, Jan 25, 2014 at 2:27 PM, Reynold Xin  wrote: +1 for 0.10.0 now with the option to switch to 1.0.0 after further discussion. On Feb 5, 2014 9:53 PM, "Andrew Ash"  wrote: We just announced this and tickets are available now. June 30 thru July 2 in downtown SF. Details at http://spark-summit.org On Jan 30, 2014 11:13 AM, "Ameet Kini"  wrote: I know this is still a few months off and folks are rushing towards 0.9 release, but do the devs have a rough date for Spark Summit 2014? Looks like it'll be in summer, but is it Jun / July / Aug / Sep ? Even "late-summer" would help. Summer being a popular vacation time, a few months advance notice would be greatly appreciated (read: I missed last summit due to a pre-scheduled vacation and would hate to miss this one :) Thanks, Ameet -- You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google Groups "Unofficial Apache Spark Dev Mailing List Mirror" group. To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send an email to apache-spark-dev-mirror+unsubscribe@googlegroups.com. For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/groups/opt_out. Thanks for the summary Patrick. I'm glad that we discussed the options before pulling the trigger on a version number update (my -1 had only been about committing a major version update without thorough discussion). IMO that's been addressed and given the discussion, I'm changing to a +1 for 1.0.0 On Feb 8, 2014 12:56 PM, "Patrick Wendell"  wrote: +1 On Feb 10, 2014 8:28 PM, "Chris Mattmann"  wrote: Henry, I just gave you all of the permissions I know how to give. Let me know if that does the trick. Andy On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 10:35 AM, Patrick Wendell  Hey Henry, Great. I'm glad it worked. You're welcome. On Thu, Feb 13, 2014 at 11:26 AM, Henry Saputra  Cool, whatever you just did allow me to have edit access to the wiki =) Congrats Spark community! I think this means we are officially now a TLP! That is a very valid point about the list archives (which a mail filter doesn't address and which impacts the community in a negative way). As of today we are a Top Level Project so I think we have a little more autonomy for this sort of dev vs separate list decision. On Thu, Feb 20, 2014 at 12:15 PM, Ethan Jewett  wrote: Thanks for the nudge Roman. I believe I've covered all of the steps for Spark related to updating the Incubator tracking and removing the project, i.e., setting the status to "graduated", etc. TL;DR --------------- I just performed the following steps for Spark from the page you referenced: * Update the svn incubator/trunk/content/projects/${project}.xml file to show the project's status. * Update the podling summary metadata file, i.e. incubator/trunk/content/podlings.xmlsvn file. See the content/podlings.dtd and follow examples of other recent graduates. At the beginning of the process, add the "graduating" element. When finished the graduation process, then: Change the podling status to "graduated"; add the "enddate"attribute to document when the project graduated; add the "resolution"element (see other project examples); remove the "graduating" element. * Remove the "reporting" element from that podlings.xml file. Andy On Sun, Mar 9, 2014 at 9:06 PM, Roman Shaposhnik  wrote: I thought this email exchange from the Mesos dev list was worth sharing. The Mesos project is trying out a process wherein they assign shepherds (who are committers) to significant issues. I'm not proposing that this necessarily makes sense for us, but I thought it might be worth discussing. Andy The master is what monitors and manages jobs. It can be a master in a Spark standalone scheduler (which itself might be running inside of YARN) or a Mesos master. The driver is the program that the user interfaces with to talk to their Spark job. That communication is primarily dive through a SparkContext object. Have you read through http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/index.html yet? If not, it and the other docs might be helpful. In the future, this level of question would probably be better suited for the user list. Best, Andy On Mar 31, 2014 7:48 AM, "Dan"  wrote: Hi, I've been recently reading spark code and confused about driver and master. What's the difference between them? When I run spark in standalone cluster, from the log it seems that the driver has not been launched. Thanks, Dan -- View this message in context: http://apache-spark-developers-list.1001551.n3.nabble.com/The-difference-between-driver-and-master-in-Spark-tp6158.html Sent from the Apache Spark Developers List mailing list archive at Nabble.com. The master is what monitors and manages jobs. It can be a master in a Spark standalone scheduler (which itself might be running inside of YARN) or a Mesos master. The driver is the program that the user interfaces with to talk to their Spark job. That communication is primarily dive through a SparkContext object. Have you read through http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/index.html yet? If not, it and the other docs might be helpful. In the future, this level of question would probably be better suited for the user list. Best, Andy On Mar 31, 2014 7:48 AM, "Dan"  wrote: Hi, I've been recently reading spark code and confused about driver and master. What's the difference between them? When I run spark in standalone cluster, from the log it seems that the driver has not been launched. Thanks, Dan -- View this message in context: http://apache-spark-developers-list.1001551.n3.nabble.com/The-difference-between-driver-and-master-in-Spark-tp6158.html Sent from the Apache Spark Developers List mailing list archive at Nabble.com. Hi folks, We have seen a lot of community growth outside of the Bay Area and we are looking to help spur even more! For starters, the organizers of the Spark meetups here in the Bay Area want to help anybody that is interested in setting up a meetup in a new city. Some amazing Spark champions have stepped forward in Seattle, Vancouver, Boulder/Denver, and a few other areas already. Right now, we are looking to connect with you Spark enthusiasts in NYC about helping to run an inaugural Spark Meetup in your area. You can reply to me directly if you are interested and I can tell you about all of the resources we have to offer (speakers from the core community, a budget for food, help scheduling, etc.), and let's make this happen! Andy Responses about London, Montreal/Toronto, DC, Chicago. Great coverage so far, and keep 'em coming! (still looking for an NYC connection) I'll reply to each of you off-list to coordinate next-steps for setting up a Spark meetup in your home area. Thanks again, this is super exciting. Andy On Mon, Mar 31, 2014 at 10:42 AM, Anurag Dodeja  How about Chicago? Wow, great work. Very impressive sticking to the schedule! On Wed, Apr 9, 2014 at 2:31 AM, Patrick Wendell  wrote: Since http://github.com/apache/incubator-spark and any links underneath it now return 404, I propose we do a global search and replace to change all instances to remove "incubator-", including those in docs/0.8.0 docs/0.8.1 and docs/0.9.0. I'm happy to do this. Any discussion before I do? Andy Should be fixed now, thanks for reporting this! Andy On Mon, Apr 21, 2014 at 10:59 PM, prabeesh k  wrote: Thanks for suggesting this and volunteering to do it. On May 11, 2014 3:32 AM, "Andrew Ash"  wrote: What trimming do you have in mind here? https://people.apache.org/~pwendell/spark-1.0.0-rc3-docs/running-on-mesos.html RDDs cannot currently be shared across multiple SparkContexts without using something like the Tachyon project (which is a separate project/codebase). Andy On May 16, 2014 2:14 PM, "qingyang li"  wrote: I fixed the bug, but I kept the parameter "i" instead of "_" since that (1) keeps it more parallel to the python and java versions which also use functions with a named variable and (2) doesn't require readers to know this particular use of the "_" syntax in Scala. Thanks for catching this Glenn. Andy On Fri, May 16, 2014 at 12:38 PM, Mark Hamstra  Sorry, looks like an extra line got inserted in there.  One more try: +1 On May 28, 2014 7:05 PM, "Xiangrui Meng"  wrote: Yesterday, I changed the domain name in the mailing list archive settings to remove ".incubator" so maybe it'll work now. However, I also sent two emails about this through the nabble interface (in this same thread) yesterday and they don't appear to have made it through so not sure if it actually worked after all. Andy On Wed, Dec 17, 2014 at 1:09 PM, Josh Rosen  wrote: